README.md, before:

# follow-md-links.nvim

This neovim plugin allows you to follow markdown links by pressing enter when the cursor is positioned on a link. It supports:

- absolute file paths (e.g. `[a file](/home/user/file.md)`)
- relative file paths (e.g. `[a file](../somefile.txt)`)
- file paths beginning with `~` (e.g. `[a file](~/folder/a_file)`).
- reference links (e.g. `[a file][label]. [label]: ~/folder/a_file`)
- web links (e.g. `[wikipedia](https://wikipedia.org)`)

Local files are opened in neovim and web links are opened with the default browser. Web links need to start with `https://` or `http://` to be identified properly.

This plugin is tested against the latest stable version of neovim. It might work with other versions, but this is not guaranteed.

## Installation

Packer:

```lua
use {
  'jghauser/follow-md-links.nvim'
}
```

As this plugin uses [nvim-treesitter](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter) to identify links, you will need that plugin, and you will need to make sure you have the treesitter markdown and markdown_inline parsers installed. You can check whether that is the case by looking at the entries in `:checkhealth nvim-treesitter` (there should be a tick in the "H" column). If the markdown parsers are missing, install it with `TSInstall markdown markdown_inline` or by adding them to `ensure_installed` in your nvim-treesitter setup function.

## Configuration

The plugin maps `<cr>` in normal mode to open links in markdown files. You might also want to add the following keymap to easily go back to the previous file with backspace:

```lua
vim.keymap.set('n', '<bs>', ':edit #<cr>', { silent = true })
```

Commit message:

added reason for the fork

README.md, after:

# follow-md-links.nvim

## Reasons for the fork
This fork fixes two issues with the original:  
1. Deprecation warning for treesitter query parse
2. Supports whitespace in titles

Both fixes are entered as PRs to the original, but the developer has a life and if you need them now, then you need them now.

---

This neovim plugin allows you to follow markdown links by pressing enter when the cursor is positioned on a link. It supports:

- absolute file paths (e.g. `[a file](/home/user/file.md)`)
- relative file paths (e.g. `[a file](../somefile.txt)`)
- file paths beginning with `~` (e.g. `[a file](~/folder/a_file)`).
- reference links (e.g. `[a file][label]. [label]: ~/folder/a_file`)
- reference links with whitespace (e.g. [a file][label]. [label]: <~/folder/a file>)
- web links (e.g. `[wikipedia](https://wikipedia.org)`)

Local files are opened in neovim and web links are opened with the default browser. Web links need to start with `https://` or `http://` to be identified properly.

This plugin is tested against the latest stable version of neovim. It might work with other versions, but this is not guaranteed.

## Installation

Packer:
```lua
use {
  'tvanyo/follow-md-links.nvim'
}
```
Lazy:
```lua
require("lazy").setup({
  "tvanyo/follow-md-links.nvim",
})
```

As this plugin uses [nvim-treesitter](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter) to identify links, you will need that plugin, and you will need to make sure you have the treesitter markdown and markdown_inline parsers installed. You can check whether that is the case by looking at the entries in `:checkhealth nvim-treesitter` (there should be a tick in the "H" column). If the markdown parsers are missing, install it with `TSInstall markdown markdown_inline` or by adding them to `ensure_installed` in your nvim-treesitter setup function.

## Configuration

The plugin maps `<cr>` in normal mode to open links in markdown files. You might also want to add the following keymap to easily go back to the previous file with backspace:

```lua
vim.keymap.set('n', '<bs>', ':edit #<cr>', { silent = true })
```
